With the world on edge,
people are looking
to their leaders
for reassurance and answers.
Unfortunately, we have him.
So, last night, the president
held an emergency live address
from the Oval Office
to calm the nation down
and to find someone else
to blame.
NEWSWOMAN:
Breaking news. Tipping point.
President Trump
addresses the nation
on the coronavirus pandemic,
using just his second
Oval Office speech
to announce
the U.S. will suspend
most travel from Europe.
The European Union failed
to take the same precautions
and restrict travel from China
and other hot spots.
As a result, a large number
of new clusters
in the United States
were seeded
by travelers from Europe.
This is the most aggressive
and comprehensive effort
to confront a foreign virus
in modern history.
Okay, first of all,
it isn't a foreign virus.
It's just a virus, okay?
Trump makes it sound like corona
doesn't speak English.
(laughter)
And-and... And also, we can
blame Europe for many things--
colonialism, skinny jeans,
Piers Morgan--
but this virus is worldwide,
all right?
It was gonna get here
no matter what Europe did.
Honestly, it's beginning to look
like shutting down borders
is just Trump's go-to solution
for everything.
This is all he thinks about.
"What? Problem? Shut a border.
Problem? Shut a border."
Does he do this
in his personal life, too?
Yeah? Is Melania just like,
"I don't love you anymore,
Donald."
And he's like,
"Close the borders.
No one's getting in or out
of this marriage."
(laughter)
Now, Donald Trump's
presidential address
turned out to be as calming
as a pack of fireworks
dropped into a bag of cocaine,
because not only
did he surprise everyone
with this announcement
but it turns out
he almost got everything wrong.
NEWSMAN: President Trump
ramping up his response
to the coronavirus outbreak,
but instead of reassuring
the public,
he caused more confusion
than calm, like this statement.
We will be suspending all travel
from Europe
to the United States
for the next 30 days.
NEWSMAN: The Department
of Homeland Security
quickly clarifying,
assuring
the travel restrictions
will not apply
to U.S. citizens,
permanent residents and some
of their family members.
The ban instead would only
apply to foreign nationals.
Trump caused more uncertainty
when he said the restriction
would apply to trade.
And these prohibitions
will not only apply
to the tremendous amount
of trade and cargo
but various other things.
NEWSMAN:
But Trump took to Twitter
to clear up that statement,
writing, "It is..."
(reading):
President Trump
further jumbled the message
when he addressed
the health care costs
associated with coronavirus.
Earlier this week,
I met with the leaders
of health insurance industry,
who have agreed to waive
all co-payments
for coronavirus treatments.
NEWSMAN: A White House official
later corrected the notion,
saying co-payments
would be waived
only for coronavirus tests,
not for treatments
of the disease.
I'm-I'm sorry, but this is...
this is unbelievable.
Like, I would...
I would understand
if Trump made mistakes, right,
if this whole thing
was off-the-cuff.
But how is it possible
to get so many things wrong
in a prewritten speech?
This is crazy.
Watching an Oval address
shouldn't be a game
of two truths and a lie.
(laughter and applause)
He's just up there like,
"The coronavirus
is very dangerous.
"We need to be vigilant.
And my babysitter growing up
was Kareem Abdul-Jabbar."
(laughter)
"God bless America."
And this misinformation
that the president spread,
it caused actual chaos, right?
The European travel ban doesn't
include American citizens,
but that's not what Trump said
in his speech.
So Americans
who are on vacation in Europe
rushed to the airport in a panic
to fly home
before the ban took effect.
Yeah, there were even reports
of people shelling out
thousands of dollars
for a last-minute ticket
'cause they were panicking.
Yeah. And then the ones
who couldn't get them,
they just hung off the airplane
like one of those trains
in India.
(laughter)
Trump caused so much confusion
that even the coronavirus
was probably like,
"Okay, wait,
can I fly to America or not?
"Like,
I-I'm just gonna call Delta.
I don't know
what's going on here."
(laughter and applause)
So, just to be clear,
Americans...
Americans can fly home
from Europe.
Which, if you think about it,
means they could
bring corona back.
Yeah. It's not a fail-safe.
'Cause Americans always bring
something back with them
whenever they come from Europe.
Yeah, it's a thing they do,
whether it's a disease
or a dumb new way
to say "croissant."
(laughter)
Yeah. It's a croissant, okay?
You're from Philly. Calm down.
And another thing. Another thing
that doesn't make sense
is that although Trump
banned travel from Europe,
he didn't ban flights
from Ireland and the U.K.
And when Trump was asked
about that today,
he gave one of the strangest
explanations of all time.
And one of the reasons the U.K.,
basically, has been...
Uh, it's got the border.
It's got very strong borders.
And, uh, they're...
they're doing a very good job.
They don't have very much
infection at this point,
and hopefully,
they'll keep it that way.
I'm sorry, what?
(laughter)
The U.K. is fine
because it's got "the border"?
Other countries in Europe
also have "the border."
Unless, maybe,
does he mean the water?
Is that it?
What, does Trump think
the coronavirus
doesn't know how to swim?
Because that's racist.
(laughter)
And also, also, I don't even...
I... Like, I can't believe
I'm saying... It's not true.
The U.K. and Ireland
have more corona cases
than many of the countries
on that list that is banned.
So, let's just be real.
The reason the U.K.
and Ireland are exempt
is probably because Trump
owns golf courses there.
Yeah. Well, that's what I think.
You know,
if-if Iran thought about it,
they would just put
a Trump golf course in Tehran.
Yeah. They'd have
a nuclear deal tomorrow.
Trump would just be like, "Now
you're enriching me and uranium.
It's a win-win. Win-win."
(applause)
So... So, look,
I'm not gonna sugarcoat it.
President Trump's
Oval Office address last night,
it was an absolute disaster,
right?
But there was a silver lining.
Because, you see,
for some strange reason,
the cameras were recording Trump
before he gave his address,
all right?
But he didn't realize
it was rolling.
And so today,
we got to see the real Trump
when he's not
acting presidential.
And honestly,
this was pure comedy gold.
You want to do this for me,
Alex, please?
(exhales)
What's our timing?
MAN:
Two minutes and 20 seconds.
Do you like the book
being on the desk or not?
Would you rather have it not be?
May-Maybe it looks better.
Gives you something up here,
right?
Does it matter?
What?
Oh, (bleep).
(laughter)
Uh-oh. I got a pen mark.
Anybody have any white...
Do you have any white stuff?
(laughter)
"Oh, (bleep).
Does anyone have
any white stuff?"
First of all,
his name is Mike Pence,
okay, Mr. President?
(gasping, laughter)
(applause)
But can I just say...
I can safely say,
this is the first time
in my life
that I've seen
the deleted scenes
of a presidential address.
Like, America's downfall
might be scary,
but, you got to admit,
the bloopers are hilarious,
you know?
And it was-- it was really weird
hearing a president
in the Oval Office say,
"Oh, (bleep)."
Although I guess now we know
what it sounds like
whenever he gets a call
from Eric.
(groans)
Now, I'm-I'm gonna go out
on a limb and say
that Donald Trump
is as freaked out by coronavirus
as regular citizens,
which is wild,
because he's the president.
And the reason I say that
is because it turns out
the cameras carried on rolling
-after Trump ended his speech,
-(gasping, laughter)
and-and his reaction
was priceless.
God bless you,
and God bless America.
Thank you.
Okay.
(exhales)
(laughter)
Yeah...
That...
is not the sound
you want to hear
from a president
after a serious address.
FDR didn't reassure the nation
by saying,
"The only thing we have to fear
is fear itself.
"Okay, Daddy needs a margarita.
"Can I get a margarita? Ha.
I need a drink. Oh, they still--
they're still here?"
So, look,
this is all to say that,
despite the efforts
of sports leagues,
amusement parks,
state and local governments,
unfortunately,
the man at the top
just does not seem
to have his shit together.
And with coronavirus now
in full pandemic mode,
all I have to say to that is,
oh, (bleep).
I'm being serious,
leaders are afraid to just say
the thing.
Because it seems callous,
but we don't want to say
the honest thing in society,
and that is if you're gonna
die, you're gonna die.
No, because I really think it is
important
to have perspective,
because death is a thing that
terrifies many of us, right?
But if you have perspective
in and around so many things
you start to understand,
so for instance here,
coronavirus has claimed
5,000 lives across the globe.
5,000 people across the planet
right now.
Yes, the number increases,
but 5,000 people across the
planet.
So I'm not saying we want
to be ignorant of all risk
and you don't want the virus to
spread
to those who are most
vulnerable,
but it's also like it
would be good to have
a leader who can put
things in perspective.
The problem with Trump
is he's more worried
about how it affects the
perception of him
versus what he's doing.
This is where you realize how
important
good leadership is, you
know what I'm saying?
Because a good leader would
set expectations for a nation
and put you in a good place.
The way I always think
of it is like a pilot.
For me, the best pilots are the
ones
who come on and tell you,
"Hey, it's gonna be bumpy."
I love those, 'cause I
get terrified when I fly,
but I love it when the pilot
goes,
"Hey everybody, so it's
gonna be really bumpy
so we're gonna be suspending
service.
There won't be any
meals served for a while
but I'm gonna try and
get to the right altitude
and hopefully it will smooth
out.
And then I'll let you guys know
when
it's safe to stand up."
And then when the bumps start
you're like,
"Ah, this was the shit
he was telling us about.
Here it comes!"
But at least you're in the,
you're like, "Okay, okay,
okay, okay, I get what ..."
Do you get what I'm saying?
But there's nothing worse
than when you're flying
and the pilot comes on like,
"Nothing to worry about folks."
It's like, "Shit is shaking
right now!
Shit is shaking.
The seatbelt sign is on!"
And the pilot's like, "No, no,
no, there's nothing wrong."
"Something is wrong!
The flight attendant is falling,
she hit the door!
Now she's on the ceiling."
"No, there's nothing wrong."
"Ladies and gentlemen take
your seats please, we're fine.
We're fine ladies and-
We're fine ladies and-"
No we're not fine!
But if you tell us ahead of
time we get ready for it,
we buckle our seatbelts,
everybody rides it out,
and then we get to smooth
sailing
and then we're on this thing
together.